hello welcome to the package man his
weekly sink I am your host a king brain
in the game of we did last week we're
blocked on what we're going to do next
this is the very first public meeting
both VIP first package managers working
group hello everyone we're on YouTube
you can follow us here would like us
here I don't know what the interface is
like it's somewhere it's somewhere here
yeah so we're gonna go around the room
but first can I have a note taker I can
do it thanks Jim
okay cool so I will go first
last week I was in Lisbon with Andrew
and the chess team and the web browsers
and GUI teams doing our cue to a cure
funny that was really productive really
great we've got good handle on kind of
the stuff we want to try and get on and
it's quarter I'm not doing anything next
so been looking at all the units of sp2
stuff it would be really cool to have
the metadata feature available so that
we can do things like mount things on
fuse because when you'd like the last
modified time and to preserve file
permissions and that kind of stuff so I
don't actually we need to wait for v2
because v1 has metadata construct that
we could probably use to do that it's
never really been implemented so I'm
going to have a go improve in seeing
that for university one and see how it
looks like so if we can then feed that
back into go as well that would be cool
people have started using NPM on ipfs
which is great it just means that people
are finding problems with it which is
also great so there are some issues that
they open so I'm going to try and tree
or some of them clear the backlog that
also the was he all the chaos starts
kicking off really keen to get NPM and
IP first deployed properly on some kind
of container service because at the
moment it's just a function of docker
containers that have to manually every
now and again because weird stuff
happens the
14 we're amenable to having it running
on ec2 or some other container service
I've just to you know make myself
available to answer any questions that
they have about what that would entail
so they can scope out the work for their
queue to stop that's likely to be me any
questions Henry I figured any metrics on
how many people are using NPM on ipfs no
there's a there's an issue open in the
infirmary about custom metrics so we've
got like you know the basic kind of CPU
memory kind of stuff so we can roughly
drive load I guess but we can't count
any actual real numbers does the 80s
tell you about bandwidth usage it's
possible ok I'm a little bit ill today
so my voice doesn't sound quite as perky
as usual I was again with Alex and lots
of wonderful people in Lisbon last week
doing ok our planning and helping
different teams trying to align with a
package managers goal which seemed to go
pretty well I think
we also made all the package manager and
repository public moved it on to ipfs I
also moved a couple of my experiments
onto ipfs shipyard and started kind of
linking all those things up the and I
automated
the updating of my apt on ipfs mirror
server so it is running on a every four
hour cron job which it takes three hours
to do an update so that gives an hour
spare for overrun and it seemed to be
working fine but it's it's having some
problems today which I don't really
understand so I'm gonna have to reach
out Mollie recommended someone on the
tiger team to look into that and to try
and work out what the hell's going on
because it's it seems to have just
stopped trying to share anything with
anyone else and really don't know what's
going on there and that is kind of a
blocker to actually then starting to
promote that or even to be able to use
it for any other machine can't can't do
a apt-get update from ipfs whilst that
machine is not sharing anything that's
going on the next thing I'm planning to
do is to put together a blog post and
properly announce the package managers
working group which then I can point at
a different package management
maintainer z-- and start to really get
all of those conversations moving
as well as trying to align with some of
the ipfs camp plans to see if I can
invite some package manager maintain is
over there still not exactly sure what
the what they be able to do there
because currently there's there's no
plans for kind of pack spaces directly
it's very it's very atted so still need
to work that out before kind of I'm just
inviting everyone there to see if
there's going to be like a proper space
for them otherwise you might need to do
something slightly different I'm not
really sure or again mostly speaking to
more people is going to be the thing
that I'm could be working on for the
next week and if we can get apt on ipfs
working again reasonably then reaching
out to infrastructure to see if we can
get that mirrored a few more on a few
more machines maybe using cluster to be
able to write a blog post about that
okay that stuck if we can get a few
machines bootstrap using it then the the
files that are really like important as
in the list of packages will start to be
shared across more nodes which then
should make everything move a little bit
faster
even if some of the random packages are
only available on that one machine to
begin with the more people that are
using it the more kind of the network
effect kicks in and starts to make it
more performant I think that's about it
at least on my plate as well as kind of
reviewing the locales of other working
groups to see if there's any way that we
can be useful for helping people connect
the dots and see if there are ever
things to be done related to pack your
engine Jim how big is apt on IP first
they could potentially run it on my
machine at home it's one point two
terabytes if you wanted to mirror it
from the machine that's already adding
it on there if you wanted to run it your
self right now you need to point four
terabytes of disk space if you want to
mirror it straight from apt because you
can't use the file store so you have to
do a regular
ipfs ad which then duplicates it into
the ipfs folder okay that's pretty big
but actually have a disks in around
that's big that big so the I was looking
at debian as well that's considerably
larger if we want to do all of the
different architectures that Dib being
supports for all of its binaries so I'll
stick with the bun - for now yeah I have
terabytes for that I think any other
questions no well I'll pass it on to Jim
then
so on the dynamic data dynamic data and
keep the buildings working group that's
always always a multiple we figured out
our okay ours and basically a Dean who's
here and Petro they're going to be
working full-time trying to figure out
the evolution of AI PMS and our the
goals are tied directly to package
managers so we're here and we want to
also see if there's something we can
maybe take one of the system shipping
together and see if we can work some IP
lessen to it in some way but not like
old I think that's like the new fast I
penis so a Dean can talk about that a
little bit more yeah so III saw on your
sort of like I don't know the the Google
Doc on roadmap thoughts that you guys
are right or we're okay kicking the can
on some of the naming stuff for a while
but it might be that we're actually able
to get some of it to be to be fast
enough to you know do what you need to
do it just sort of depends on what the
actual requirements are so there's just
sort of like to learn a little bit more
about that and then we can set up like
two of the big things are one
performance and two making it easy
enough to pin IP NS things and that
don't necessarily require you to just
leave the private key sitting online the
whole time
yeah that's sort of the basic idea but I
I so I don't it depends on what what
avenues you want to go down for for
building stuff like what you want to
build first and how it can be of use
so I'm not sure how that fits with MPM
on ipfs but for the apt one we're using
IP and s2 to point out the root of the
mirror and then updating that every four
hours or so for whenever we finished
doing it I'll synch update seems to be
working reasonably well it takes kind of
a minute to publish and then maybe like
30 seconds to resolve which isn't the
worst thing in the world especially if
we then start putting it on like a bun
to dough i PF esta IO as a DNS link then
that should make it read and like fast
enough for that to be usable for anyone
who's once we solve the other problems
related to apt or ipfs that it doesn't
feel like that's the most pressing thing
but it feels like there are some places
that maybe the MPM on ipfs could be
could use performant naming once on like
the precursor that currently it doesn't
use the DHT so because it's using JSON
ipfs I don't know if that then throws a
spanner in the works if you were
thinking more of doing the work on the
go side so there's gonna be work on on
both at least for just sort of regular
make IP Anna's faster probably the
pinning will be done by a go daemon just
because why not
it'll be more efficient and it won't
affect anyone who wants to write like
J's code for web browsers or anything
but I guess the thought was if I
understood correctly a lot of the
mirrors sort of require the way that you
pull the the latest version of
everything is you go to some something
by like DNS and you pull it
that way for the mirror and it'd be nice
to have that decentralized and then sort
of the next step like sort of step one
is have sort of a decentralized system
like IP nuts doing it but the key is
centrally managed and like step two is
figure out a way to do this were there
multiple keys for multiple registries in
a way that users can are not just
dependent on like the one guy without
explicitly deciding they only want to
care what the one guy is publishing but
those I that's I'm just not sure like
how far out those are for you guys
mmm my feeling is that will probably be
something that comes up as soon as we
start talking to other package
management a nurs the naming and kind of
proving out who the owners of the like
the trusted data for like what's the
current state of the index for a list of
packages is gonna be like that'll be the
the point where it it all becomes much
more like interesting so
I have what a thought so assuming there
was there existed this highly performant
IP NS implementation where basically our
beautiful data on the decentralized web
and I think that has the most
interesting ramification is that each
user that's uploading the packages to
their repositories the the repository
itself just just has to become sort of
like a trust network and each each user
can have their own like sort of IP NS
link their own little mini repo then all
sort of gets fused together and it might
be a little bit too early to explore
that but I'm wondering if we could make
perhaps do something along the lines of
trying to create it like an IP NS record
for each and every like NPM maintainer
or like to mirror them
I can imagine having not only for the
the creators but for every individual
package being able to have it's like a
mini index of the number of versions
that are available for that package and
that you have to trust that whoever put
those listed versions together was the
person who is authorized to publish them
so you could definitely have a name per
package yeah sort of like if you if you
if you drew the entire schema for NPI
mode on whiteboard
like what parts of it are immutable
which parts of it are immutable and you
know every part that has to be mutable
is potentially an IP NS entry yes I did
the talking that we did a lot last week
was the idea of using em FS to kind of
simplify that by lumping everything into
em FS folders and then pointing the user
at the root of that for a given registry
mostly because we're thinking of how we
could work around IP NS being slow if
that was not the case then you don't
need to lump everything together you can
treat everything as kind of splitting
them all up and the the packages
themselves should be immutable but the
indexes and the of every version and
then the indexing is of every package or
the indexes of the indexes all need to
be mutable and also trusted and signed
where any individual package is its
index aversions is owned by the people
that have the ability to publish new
versions of that thing and the overall
index is the like the registry
maintainer trusted list of approved or
dis approved packages where spam or
malicious packages get removed or DMCA
takedown so those are the two like
significant ones and then you have like
extra bits like search and security and
license data that all start to kind of
come in as extra is actually treating
like how much can you treat ipfs IP
alien as a database that points to the
immutable packages and then sometimes
you stop pointing to some of those
packages when they get deleted
another potential application for
mutability I was thinking about was like
the problem I see in package managers
right now is we're taking these enormous
repos in the gigantic and we're trying
to dump them all in at once it'd be much
nicer if it could be sort of like
on-demand like the ones we ingest so we
we just ingest the ones that are
actually being used and then there's
from the people using the package
manager package manager clients can feed
back you know lists of packages they use
and then those are the ones that we
ingest for them so I think NPM online
PFS is kind of doing that already in the
eights quite lazy in the way that it
will add packages to you I profess as in
if it's already there if it's as a user
requests it via
NPM ipfs - NPM it will lazily like go
and check to see if it's already on ifs
if not LLL go to the upstream registry
fetch the Jason download the tarball
avatar Walter ipfs then update the Jason
with the CID to the every individual
version that was then just added and
then send that back to the user
but it's also proactively doing that
because that's slow not just for the I
mean doesn't even use the naming but
just adding all of those packages to
ipfs isn't as fast as the current like
HD PM PM then it is also doing it
proactively because NPM has a changes
feed you can see every time that a new
version is published it's also going
like oh well we might as well add this
just in case someone asked for it
because they're going to expect it to be
speedy if they're going to compare it to
using it using the regular NPM like I'm
thinking like for in the Debian case
like it's too it's too big like we can
we don't want to mirror the whole thing
but like if individuals could say
publish an IP NS entry these are the
packages I have installed or I want I
want to install yeah saying I'm
subscribing to you and then we would
know every we only have to scrape those
ones down and then it could it could
default it could try to try PFS first
for the ones that are available and then
if they install one isn't on ipfs it
could get it from the normal Debian
mirror but then they could update their
IP NS entry saying I'm I want this
package as well and then we could have
essentially we could subscribe to all
the clients IP Ness feeds and figure out
what package sets we should be mirroring
that sounds that sounds really
interesting especially if you can get to
the point where you then start to share
those individual lists between users
maybe within companies or just within
communities to go like here's a small
subset of those things the I guess
structurally the Debian or Ubuntu
registries still need to have like at
least the packages GZ file which tells
you everything that's possibly available
which they pull down a full copy of the
actual then if they go to install one of
those packages then we could at that
type EFS at the point of asking for it
rather than trying to and everything at
once yeah I haven't been a Debian
developer since late 1999 but they used
to have a package called popularity
contest and it was like they already had
that mechanism where you could send your
list of packages up to a central server
that would like collect the list and
then they so had a account of which ones
were the most popular yeah that still
exists and it's slightly skew if now
because docker and CI don't include the
popularity contest so a good number of
Debian users don't ever like report that
but it's still like there's it in most
package managers you've got like the top
one percent of packages make up 90% of
all the ballots where we can
fairly easily work out what those are
whether or not we want to like do the
work to individually like count those
things I mean I'm trying to just not
like first lost recently used car you
keep the things around my being in
question the other another thing we
could possibly explore would just
probably down the road but like would be
like Federation so that you could have
multiple people ingesting say the Debian
archive just that they published the
ones they want but then people would
have to trust the other feeds their
their federating with but because the
immutable nature of ipfs that would
probably work really neat I think this
is like an FYI there there's some stuff
but the cluster team is working on
that's about like community wide
clusters amongst people who are like
semi trusted so that there probably ends
up being some overlap with this as well
they're also talking about being able to
shard enormous tags favor lots and lots
of like a first note so it's just like
they tub you know shakers it's just like
beer tree here is everything it would be
helpful to know though for for some of
these things that we're talking about um
making sure we know like what the goals
are or what what would be needed for
like IPS performance for instance like
I'm a little concerned about even just
like simple like you know DHT like
finding providers which is how I pipe
EFS works if you if you have like a nest
records that are being run by limited
numbers of people there may not be that
much that many entries in the DHT which
means that you have to actually find
them quickly and if the amount of the
speed that we're looking that we would
need you know
to say make this work for you know every
single package has an IPS entry or
something if that performance was like
really high and we're gonna end up using
DNS link or something anyway then it may
not be worth starting down that path
right now given that the alternative is
to just use DNS right so like knowing
what the performance requirements are
and making sure they can actually be met
would help us know like what kind of
planned next steps yeah so at least the
approach that I'm imagining to begin
with is that we're going to the approach
we're going to take is to encourage
package managers to essentially take
their existing registry a mirror onto
ipfs rather than to try and rewrite
their the way that their package
managers work to be able to work more
effectively with ipfs mostly because
that's just a much bigger task of them
and I don't think they'll go for it
so I suspect that will be slightly
further down the line the kind of the
things that Jim was talking about around
being able to to shape the the way the
data is kind of arranged so that it's
smaller or it's focused on individual
users or hot kind of hot spots in
individual packages sorry I think it's
gonna be a case of like we're gonna use
DNS as like We Trust
the registry owner because they have
control of the deed event the DNS to
point into the ipfs kind of world rather
than
than try and have them kind of have a or
Scherer
an IP n s for every individual package
and every user a lot of the language
package managers do no signing
whatsoever right now they're entirely
reliant on their DNS and their central
database to to kind of infer any kind of
ownership so trying to get those things
to change will definitely be a harder
like for new package managers we can
definitely encourage people to think
about that in a slightly different way
but for existing ones we're going to
have to start by trying to support the
hood like some of the use cases that the
work easily to get them up and running
before trying to jump on more advanced
well so does that mean it's more about
like updates feeds that is about the
initial resolution because you're just
using one like mega index so if it takes
you like a minute to find the mega index
but all of the updates to it are really
fast you're probably okay okay cool yeah
reach every door so close because the
team occasionally
but yeah I wish it was sometime in the
diary to talk about this stuff more
because I think or to get on the
priorities right cool cool you know
thank you very much for coming to the
package managers weekly same guys see
you next week